So the thing about using the use
route composable is that it provides
more than just the parameters, it provides
you the ability to basically see what
exactly you can get from the route path.
And this can be extremely helpful when
you start passing query parameters.
So an example of this is when
if we go to the navbar, and
let's say we wanted to add another link.
And this time it won't just be two todos,
it'll have a question mark,
which is basically how you
start your parameters.
And we'll say, completed, right?
And so to say, completed equals true.
And you can imagine then from this URL
what this would expect is when you get to
the to do list, that you would actually
then you would only fetch the completed
items, you won't actually
see the incomplete ones.
So how might we accomplish that?
Well, first thing first is
we're gonna go in here, and
as we take a look at this though, I'm
starting to realize that, wait a second.
If we look at our base display,
it's making me realize that why are we
even fetching it all
the way at the to do item?
This doesn't make any sense at all.
We can actually get rid of this here.
We can get rid of this prop item type and
we can actually just do it
directly inside of here because we already
have the information from the route.
That's the only time we're using
this component at this moment.
So again, this is a specific refactoring
that we have data that show that it's
being supported and used this way.
If it were being used in a more generic
way, maybe that wouldn't be necessary.
So now to prove that this works, we can
now, let's go ahead and come in here and
let's do the const route = useRoute and
this time let's go ahead and
log this again to see what we get.
And so inside of here,
if I open that up, there we go.
Yeah, I know it's missing a prop type,
I know you're yelling at me.
So params, object value.
Yeah, looks like it's still empty,
which is totally fine.
Okay, href center of value display
to do the same deal, interesting.
Okay, so we have this and
then we have the other piece that
I'll just go ahead and paste.
Not that one, this one, okay,
we already learned how to
split it up by the item type.
And so we have that, rather than that,
we can actually now just
integrate item type into our URL.
But more importantly it kind of begs
the question, why are we even waiting for
the user to click on it?
Let's just actually call it on
when it's mounted to the page,
that makes the most sense.
So we can call a lifecycle hook using the
on whatever the lifecycle hook is called,
that's how these composable is work within
lifecycle hooks on composition API.
Because if we just didn't
mount it before create,
you've run into name clashing issues,
so the on makes it consistent with like,
this is on a specific event,
a lifecycle event.
So onMounted, what are we going to do?
We're gonna run this fetch thing, we are
not even I'm gonna click on it anymore.
So now that we have this and we have
the item type, we can actually then say,
okay, well, I can delete this button,
don't need that anymore.
Save and I'm gonna delete this item type,
because we don't need that anymore.
So now, if I refresh, okay, that's
looking pretty good, it instantly blinks,
instantly shows.
Now, the only thing that
we got to do though is,
now that we're on the to do viewer,
to do the viewer is actually
gone at this point, that's gone.
Okay, so what we need to do is
that if the query says, completed,
we really should only show, we should
just hide remaining to be totally honest.
And so, for simplicity's sake,
we're just gonna hide the remaining
count versus the completed count.
We're not going to worry about filtering
out everything, although you know what,
maybe for
fun it actually would be nice to do that.
So let me actually just show you how that
would be done, because anytime we get
a chance to demonstrate computer
properties, I always like to do so.
So let's do a quick template, v-slot:list.
Just like that, and then for
now, we can then say, okay,
for every li v-for and
then we say, todo in todoList.
And then key is todo-id just like that and
then we can for now just go ahead and
let's go ahead and
just close that, input type checkbox.
Again, the checked is bound to whether or
not todo.completed is true.
And then after that,
we show the todo.title.
Okay, so to make sure this works, let's go
back and check, not rendering anything.
We have a slot name of,
the slot name is items.
That's why it's not showing up
anywhere cuz I'm sending it
to a non-existent location.
Great, okay, so we're gonna switch that,
this is the items and now much better.
>> To circle back real quick,
is there a reason that you used the
mounted lifecycle hook instead of created?
>> No, non regular,
we totally use created too, I think
mounted is just like a habit of mine.
But let's go and
see if created actually works.
Before, I was using onMounted and
the question was,
why not use something like created or
before create?
You'll see here in
the lifecycle hook diagram,
there actually is a before create and
created.
So you are spot on as far as that goes.
But what I always forget is that the setup
is the first thing that ever runs.
So really actually,
as early as humanly possible,
it actually is nice to run it then.
So I think out of habit, when I just
want to be sure everything's mounted to
the page and then I like load the thing,
but I'm pretty sure if we just fetch it
here right inside of our script setup
block then we go inside of here.
Let's see, yeah,
it's working pretty instantly.
So granted, I think to the naked eye
it might not be discernible, right,
because the onMounted
also had like a blink.
So we won't talk about
performance optimizations but
that was a great suggestion,
your point to take it away from onMounted
cuz that's a couple of steps down
the lifecycle that we would have had
to wait till it kick this process off.
Okay, so now that we have this,
this is great.
All right, so I mentioned now that when
you're going through this and your
todoList, your first instinct might be,
especially when we're wanting to check,
something along the lines of
v-iftodo.completed is true, then show it.
But as a rule of thumb, you do not
combine your looping mechanism with your
conditional rendering mechanism, because
you just have a bunch of performance like
cluster forks that end up happening.
So the better way of doing this whenever
you wanna filter out a list is to actually
create a computed property, because
you basically have a dependency and
you wanna have that do the caching and
prevent all the foot guns possible.
So what we can do is one actually,
you'll see we actually did already
create one computer property here,
which is the completed items and
we also have even remaining items here.
So the question is we can also say,
depending on whether or not the query
comes back true, so what we can do is we
can say, const route equals useRoute.
And so then let's just log route.query,
I think called it completed.
So if we go back now inside of here,
we'll see that right now this makes sense.
There is no query for completed.
But if we just append
this with completed and
enter complete 10 equals true,
much better.
Okay, now it actually has
a value being passed to it.
So all we need to do now is
inside of the navbar that I said,
we just need to make sure yeah,
it says completed true.
So when we click on that,
that'll kick it off.
And so now we know basically this
variable here will be reactive.
So what we could do to
be honest is we can say,
let's see how else are we using
completed items right now?
Okay, so we're using it by length,
that's how we find, okay.
So what I like to do to be honest,
I like to basically create another
reactive property called filtertodoList.
And the reason I like to create basically
a separate property is because this is
a derivative of this list.
And this can be filtered
any number of ways.
By completed, you can imagine if
someone's searching for something,
you might wanna filter by title.
It could be anything, but
we can keep it simple for this.
Because all we need to say, is if
route.query.completed is true then for
now, again, there's definitely
ways to optimize this code, we
are just returned actually you know what,
I can just return completed items.value.
There you go, cleaner,
else return remaining items.value.
No, okay, this is gonna definitely
create a bug, but that's totally fine.
I'm gonna do this intentionally.
So we're gonna take this reactive property
and we're gonna drop it in here instead.
And now you'll see because completed
is true, that's what we get.
But then the moment completed is false,
well, that's weird.
But then if we take it away completely,
then it's not everything.
But again, this is kind of a buggy, we're
not gonna sit here and flush out the UI,
because that's another time.
We have a lot of features we wanna get
through but this is how you can start
detecting those things, you certainly
rewrite the logic to be like,
if completed is false, then do this, etc.
But I think people here can get
the gist of the power of that.